First choose a large potato. A potato with a smooth surface and close to cylindrical will be easy to work with. Wash and peel the skin of the potato.
Fill a bowl with water and place the potato slicer on top of the water bowl. Thinly slice the potato across the width. Make sure that the potato slices immediately drop into the water. This will prevent the potato slices from browning.
Once the whole potato is sliced up, wash the potato slices nicely in water for 2 or 3 times until the water runs out clean. This will remove any excess starch from the surface. Now, add about a tsp of salt to the bowl, mix well and leave the potato slices to soak up in water .
After about 10-15 mins, remove the potato slices from the water and leave them to dry on a clean kitchen towel / paper napkins. Meanwhile heat oil for frying. Once the oil is hot, reduce the flame to medium low and drop a batch of the potato slices. Continuously keep tossing up the potato slices in the oil, until they turn slightly golden and/or crisp. Remove the chips from the oil and drain off excess oil. Before adding the next batch for frying, wait for a few mins, make sure that the oil is back hot again.
Taste the potato chips and add additional salt per taste, toss it up and enjoy a plain salted version.
Add red chilli powder to the chips and toss it up for a spicy chilli version.
Add freshly ground black pepper to the chips and toss it up for a spicy pepper version.
Store in an airtight container or zip lock bag and enjoy.